Homage to all Buddhas and Bodhisatvas.

This is what I've heard: Once, the Blessed One was staying at Śrāvastī, in Prince Jeta's Grove,
in Anatapiṇḍada's pleasure garden, together with a community of many monks.

Then one morning, the Blessed One put on his upper and lower robes, took his begging bowl and
went into the city of Śrāvastī to gather alms.

At that time, outside the city of Śrāvastī, a group of young children who were sitting and playing,
making houses, courtyards and castles out of sand, saw the Blessed One approaching
in the distance.

When they saw the Blessed One, they were delighted, overjoyed. They continued to sit, playing
happily.

Then the Blessed One, out of compassion for the children, went over to them.

Then one of the boys, named Brahmaśrī, payed homage at the feet of the Blessed One, and sat
down before him.

Then the Blessed One, although he already knew the answer, asked the children:What are you children
doing?

The children answered: Blessed One, we are sitting here and playing, making houses, courtyards
and castles out of sand.

Then Brahmaśrī said to him: Blessed One, please accept this sandcastle as a gift, out of compassion
for me.

The Blessed One saw that Brahmaśrī's intentions were sincere and that his spirit was joyful,
and so out of compassion, he accepted the sandcastle.

Then, at that moment, at that very instant, the sandcastle in front of the Buddha was transformed
by his power into a castle made of the seven kinds of jewels.

The castle had 84,000 golden pillars on its eastern side, 84,000 silver pillars on its southern
side, 84,000 pillars of baiḍūrya on its western side, and 84,000 pillars of crystal on
its northern side.

When the boy Brahmaśrī saw this marvel, he became even more delighted, and great joy arose in
him.

Then he broke into verse:

1. O, the Savior of the worldHas displayed a magnificent prodigyOut of compassion for meThe
Buddha has displayed a miracle.

2. The sandcastleThat I offered to the Great SageHas been transformed into jewelsO, how inconceivable
is the Buddha.

3. O, O, such a field is this.The field of the Buddha is unsurpassed.The blind, those with no
vision, and those of little wisdomCannot conceive of this.

4. The Best of Men is the field for sentient beings.This field has been obtained by me.Having
gained this rare opportunity,I plant the seeds of Awakening.

5. O guide, I aspire to develop your qualities.When I have attainedUnsurpassed Awakening,I will
perform such marvels.

Then the Blessed One smiled, and rays of color blazed from his mouth: blue, yellow, red, white,
crimson, crystal and silver.

These rays, having blazed forth, rose as far as the Brahmaloka, returned, circled the Blessed
One three times, and vanished into the crown of his head.

Then Ānanda spoke to the Blessed One in verse:

6. The Supreme Conquerors, the Leaders, the Best of Men,Do not smile without reason.Compassionate
One, for the benefit the world,Explain to us now why you have smiled.

The Blessed One replied to the Venerable Ānanda: Ānanda, do you see this boy, Brahmaśrī?

He answered: I see him.

The Blessed One said: Ānanda, this boy, because of his aspiration and his roots of virtue, will
not go to the hell-realms for 3,200 eons.

When he has attained Awakening, he will become a Tathāgata, an Arhant, a Fully Awakened Buddha
named *Sarvalokābhyudgata, "He who has Transcended the Entire World".

The Blessed One then spoke these verses:

7. No small merit is producedby having faith in the Awakened Ones.The same is true of listening
to the Supreme DharmaAnd of honoring the Saṅgha.

8. For one with faith in the BuddhaAwakening is not hard to obtain.Therefore those who seek
Awakening hereShould make offerings to the Guides of the World.

9. Ānanda, this boy will becomethe Best of Men, A Guide of the Worldnamed *Abhyudgata,Glorious
One.

10. The Buddhas are inconceivable.So too is their Dharma,And the ripening of the deedsOf those
with faith in the inconceivable.

When the Blessed One had pronounced this teaching, the Venerable Ānanda, and the boy Brahmaśrī
were delighted, and praised his words highly.

